---
layout: post
title:  "ADD"
date:   2015-05-30 19:15:51
categories: programming, childhood
---

Growing up I spent most of my life in a peculiar position. I sat through school completely uninvolved because I couldn't be bothered. I understood everything, everything just went at a pace that put me to sleep. Teachers would call on me, to try to bring me back to earth. I'd answer the question, correctly, then continue to space out. I spent a year in "primary first grade" for kids who were above kindergarten, not ready for first grade. I scored in the 99th percentile in all my elementary school tests, but couldn't maintain any sort of focus.

I remember an assignment in primary first grade. We had to draw something we did on vacation, then present in front of the class. I must have phased out, I do that a lot. I drew something I wanted to do on vacation, fly to the moon in a spaceship. When I saw the other children present I was terrified. Utterly fucking terrified. I should have said "I watched the moon landing on tv", or "I was confused about the assignment". Instead of the rational options, I feigned sickness - extreme foot pain, to get out of class. My mom actually took me to the doctor for my fake foot pain. The doctor, could not cure my illness. There wasn't yet a name for what I had.

As an engaged, teen with a sponge like brain, I listened to a lot of talk radio, and pretended like I read the news. I learned about Attention Deficit Disorder. At that time ADD wasn't yet synonymous with Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder. I have ADD, not ADHD. I was never more hyperactive than any other child who loved coca-cola and [Fun Dip][fun-dip]. I insisted that I be taken to the doctor to be diagnosed. The doctor, to his credit, wasn't in favor of pumping me full of speed and sending me into the world like everyone else. But I convinced him. He started me at 4mg dose of ritilin, the maximum suggested amount. 

At school I noticed everything. I was hyper aware. I watched the school clock tick by in slow motion. I burned through churned through my readings and my assignments. My mouth was dryer than a desert no matter how much water I drank. I wasn't hungry at lunch, which is weird for a chubby kid. I felt completely dead inside. Sad movies couldn't trigger a tear. I felt like I could watch a bus load of puppies explode and not care. In an English class our assigned reading was "Catcher in the Rye". I read the first 2 chapters. I was depressed. Horribly depressed. I was smart enough to know that Catcher in the Rye is what multiple gunman had on their person when apprehended. I knew the book was was a gasoline to the flame of frustration with the world. I felt that if I read the book I might be so depressed I took my own life. So I read the cliffs Notes. I got a C. 

I quit using Ritilin 2 weeks in. Feeling like a self-destructive robot is no way to go through adolescence. I don't know if taking a lower dose would have helped me. I'm kind of glad the doctor scared me out of pharmaceuticals by giving me what I wanted. Later in life I met a guy who was in the test group for ritilin. He had a very visible set of facial tics that went off every three or four seconds. 

In college I used deadlines to keep me focused, which was good in essays I could b-s (film papers), and horrible for things like statistics, and history papers. Reading and retention classes I did well in. I am the king of the multiple-choice quiz. Large assignments requiring self motivation was like herding cats (but to my own credit, I did well in nearly every class). The college stress made me realize that my ADD was just part of me. I didn't want to use it as a crutch like some kids did, and I didn't want to TRY to use it to my advantage, by procrastinating. 

I had to use my body and mind as an instrument and tune it according to the tasks at hand. I found that repetitive daily activities made more aware of what I was doing. Doing the same things, at the same time of day, in the same order. Writing lists was very helpful, keeping it in my back pocket I could find the tasks that i had to complete by the end of the day (this was later replaced by phone apps). I found I could stay focused reading books if I actively tried to speed read them (I run a bookmark down the page and have my eyes dart directly behind it). When I'm in the zone, I will run at a task until I'm exhausted, and as long as I return back to it, I can actually get the damn thing done. 

I still have ADD. I self-medicate with meditative exercises and coffee. I should probably find some herbal supliment to help out naturally. My work in front end design isn't hindered terribly much by the ADD (most of the time). I feel like bouncing between markup, scss, and javascript is kind of helped by my ADD. I can usually have bad 80s movies on when I work at home without any adverse effects. If I can't focus, I'll take a minute walk, get a drink of water meditate for a minute and go back into the zone. So much of programming is type a line, save, make sure it worked, adjust, in an infinite short burst cycle. 

The conspiracy theorist in me thinks there's some ingredient in white bread that our pregnant mom's ate too much of that gave my generation ADD/ADHD, or something like that. Or perhaps it was just watching hours and hours of Nickelodeon/MTV/and [Ricki Lake][ricki] as a kid. Regardless of the cause, rather than drugging all the kids, I'd rather unchain them from their desks and let them learn through play. Let their attentionless minds discover by asking questions, until they find a topic they really want to focus on. 

[fun-dip]: http://www.collectingcandy.com/wordpress/?p=3517
[ricki]: https://twitter.com/rickilake